Recursion 

1. Recursion is when a function calls itself one or more times in its body.  With
every recursive call, the solution of the problem is downsized and moves towards a 
base case.  As the functions complete, the function close themselves back up. 

2. It is necessary to have a base case otherwise your functions will continue 
to call themselves and it will never know when to stop.  


Graphs

1. Graphs can have loops, can have many connections and the relationship between 
nodes can either be directed or non-directred.  Graphs are often used to model
relationships between things.    

2. All trees can be graphs but not all graphs are trees.  Graphs can have loops
and can be directed or non-directed while tree are only directed and are acyclic.
Trees are hierarchial while graphs are not.  

3. If you were trying to figure out what the cheapest way is to get from point a 
to point b.  Each node would have the stop over destinations and the edges can
have a weight of price.  


Performance of different data structures


Data Structure                 Index   Search  Add-R   Add-L   Pop-L   Pop-R
Python List (Array)            O(1)    O(n)    O(1)    O(n)    O(n)    O(1)
Linked List                    O(n)    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)
Doubly-Linked List             O(n)    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1)         
Queue (as Array)               X       X       O(1)    X       O(n)    X
Queue (as LL or DLL)           X       X       O(1)    X       O(1)    X
Stack (as Array, LL, or DLL)   X       X       O(1)    X       X       O(1)
Deque (as DLL)                 X       X       O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(1) 



Data Structure                Get     Add      Delete     Iterate     Memory
Dictionary (Hash Map)         O(1)    O(1)     O(1)       O(n)        medium
Set (Hash Map)                O(1)    O(1)     O(1)       O(n)        medium
Binary Search Tree            O(logn) O(n)     O(n)       O(1)        little
Tree                          O(n)    O(1)     O(1)       O(1)        little


Sorting

1. The first two numbers in the list are compared. If the first number is larger
than the numbers swap positions, if not they remain in the same location. Than the
second and third numbers in the list are compared and will do the same thing. Than
the third and fourth, etc. 

2. A list is broken down by half until each number is it's own list. The first
and second lists compare to see which on is bigger and then combine into one sorted
list.  Than the third and fourth list does the same things, etc until everyone is
paired off and sorted.  Than the first pair and second pair get ready to be compared.
The first number in each list compare and the one that is lower gets put in a new
list.  Than the next first numbers in the list compare again and the lowest is added
to the list.  It does that until all four numbers are sorted.  Than the next two
pairs will do the same thing.  The lists will continue to merge until one sorted
list is the final product. Divide and conquer method.   

3. First we need to choose a number in the array to be our pivot. We than go
through each number and put the numbers that are less than the pivot value to the
left of the pivot and the numbers that are greater than the pivot value to the 
right of the pivot. Now we recursively do the same thing to each side until the 
list is fully sorted. Like merge sort it is also a divide a conquer method.  A lot
of time as a matter of practice, the number with the highest index value is chosen
as the pivot.  


Git Branching

1. You would use git branching if you have a functioning master copy but you are trying
to change or add a new feature.  You can do a git branch which will give you an exact
replica of the master and you can make your changes without affecting the master
cooy.  If it doesn't work, it does not make a difference and if you want to keep
your changes you can merge your branch with the master copy to make the changes
permanent.  

2. A pull request happens when someone has created a git branch, has made changes
and has commited their work.  They can create a new pull request so that the owner
of the repo can look at the changes that were made and can either ask them to 
further make changes or can merge the changes with the master copy.    
